Several members of the opposition Citizens for Innovation (CI) party among 38 who were held at the main police station in the capital Malabo, which they dubbed "Guantanamo", told AFP of alleged abuse during their detention from December 28 to January 3. "We were tortured for a week," said party activist Ernesto Obama Ondo, 42. "I received 150 lashes every day," he said in Malabo. "My buttocks were in shreds." Mireille Buila Euka, 24, also recounted being lashed, with her hands and feet bound. "I was whipped 100 times the first night," she said. The party has said that during their trial for "rebellion" in February, around 30 of the 147 defendants could not even stand up because of the alleged torture they endured at "Guantanamo". Many were rounded up following a failed December 24 coup in the tiny West African state, it has said. The authorities say the attempted overthrow was planned internally and carried out by foreign agents, about 30 foreign armed men were arrested just inside neighbouring Cameroon. A small state of 1.2 million people, awash with oil but mired in poverty and a reputation for corruption, Equatorial Guinea has been ruled with an iron fist by Teodoro Obiang Nguema since 1979. He seized power by ousting his own uncle, first post-independence president Francisco Macias Nguema, who was shot by firing squad. Obiang has since seen off at least half a dozen assassination or coup attempts. He won a fifth seven-year term in 2016 with nearly 94% of votes. Equatorial Guinea's Ambassador to France, Miguel Oyono Ndong Mifumu, dismissed the allegations of torture in an interview in Paris with AFP. "Who was tortured?" he asked. "Torture is a word that's used when you want to tarnish someone's image. "The (activists) weren't arrested because they were members of a political party (but) for sedition, disorderly conduct, defying authority and serious injuries" during the November clashes, he said. Likening CI activists to "paramilitaries", Ndong Mifumu said around 200 people "beat up" police officers. The 147 activists tried in late February faced the death penalty over the events in Aconibe. --AFP--