Shortly after restructuring a Eurobond in 2016, Mozambique’s government admitted to $1.4 billion of previously undisclosed loans, much of which was spent on building a state tuna-fishing company and enhancing maritime security. The disclosure prompted the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and foreign donors to cut off support, triggering a currency collapse and leading to a default. But in the 17 months since Maputo said its debt was unsustainable and needed restructuring, little progress seems to have been made and there has been little contact between the government and its creditors. “Put simply, it is not clear what the government is going to say to creditors,” Stuart Culverhouse at Exotix Capital wrote in a note to clients. “Without any discussions, it is not clear what Mozambique wants to present and how it will be received.” The IMF said in a report last month that Mozambique’s debt situation had seen a “stark deterioration” due to a delayed fiscal response to a fall in commodity prices, hidden loans and its currency nearly halving in value since the end of 2014. The country’s external public debt is seen rising to $13.3 billion this year from $10 billion in 2016, according to the IMF. Its external public and publicly guaranteed debt is expected to peak in 2023 at more than 370% of gross domestic product, while economic growth in the near-term looks anaemic, the fund said. Meanwhile, its overall external arrears have been building up rapidly, hitting $709.7 million by the end of 2017, more than 80% of which is owed to commercial creditors. But Mozambique is also in arrears to the governments of Brazil, Libya, Iraq, Angola, Bulgaria and Poland. While Maputo has made some inroads on reforms, such as abolishing fuel and wheat subsidies, the outlook remains challenging, it said. Eurobond holders reading the latest IMF reports, which include government responses, were concerned about the differences between the two sides’ outlooks. In particular, Maputo said it envisages a slower path to fiscal consolidation than suggested by the fund. --Reuters--