Erasmus has defied the temptation to return to the Absa Premiership despite numerous reports suggesting that his services were sought after back home. The 27-year-old has instead signed a two-year deal with Swedish second division side AFC Eskilstuna, who confirmed the news on Tuesday. "AFC has signed another forward. Welcome to Eskilstuna and the AFC family, we say to Kermit Romeo Erasmus from South Africa," said the club on their official Twitter page. Erasmus parted ways with French Ligue 1 club Rennes last month, after failing to break into the first team this season upon his return from a loan spell with Ligue 2 side RC Lens in 2016/17. He managed just nine Ligue 1 appearances during his time in France, while managing one goal in 13 Ligue 2 appearances during a six-month spell with Lens. The Port Elizabeth-born forward departed the Buccaneers’ ship in January 2016, after two-and-a-half seasons at the club, with many supporters welcoming the idea of a possible return. However, the SuperSport United youth graduate now hopes to win the favour of the supporters in Eskilstuna, which is a city situated just west of the Swedish capital of Stockholm. "I hope to win the love of fans through my goals. It was a difficult decision to make, but there is a good opportunity for me to play again," he told the club’s website. "I have not played football for a few months so I have a lot of desire. I just want to be happy to do something that I like." Meanwhile, AmaZulu are said to be closing in on Argentine striker, Emiliano Tade, who plies his trade for New Zealand club Auckland City. The 30-year-old has scored 18 league goals in 17 appearances this season for Auckland, who are top of the standings in New Zealand. Tade, who is in his second spell at the club after a short spell with Club Atletico in his homeland in 2015, has won the OFC Champions League five times and the league with them in 2013/14. Another player who is set to join AmaZulu on a pre-contract is Nhlanhla Vilakazi from Free State Stars. The former Ajax Cape Town and Maritzburg United midfielder’s contract with Ea Lla Koto comes to an end in June. --News24--