A group of women in the country are now building energy saving stoves said to use less fuel and are also less-polluting compared to traditional open stoves. Displaced women in South Sudan's Upper Nile region are learning how to make energy saving cook stoves out of clay. The stoves use up less energy and are designed to retain heat, which keeps the fire burning longer. The women have been working with Rwandan troops from the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS), who are in the country as part of the mission's regional protection force. The stoves are known in Rwanda as 'Rondereza' or stoves that economise. The women have been attending workshops where Rwandan troops conduct practical classes on building the simple stoves.    The stoves are made from clay blocks which the women produce. The blocks are then joined together using wet clay to construct two-burner stoves. The stoves also generate less smoke compared to traditional cooking stoves. It takes about two days to build one from scratch. "The Rwandan troops asked us to attend their classes. When we arrived here we found that we were to learn how to make blocks, and we agreed to learn how to make them and build stoves. We usually collect firewood for cooking. We are happy because it's a good idea," said Nansanjwok Mayiik, a displaced civilian. "Today we are proud because of this stove. The stoves will help us a lot because when we buy charcoal for about 25 US cents we normally use it for two days, unlike in the past when we used to spend 50 cents a day on charcoal. Therefore, we thank the Rwandan troops for sharing this idea, we are going to pass on this knowledge to the rest, so we can all benefit," said Priscila Joshua Kur, another displaced civilian. South Sudan has been racked by an ethnically charged civil war since late 2013, pitting forces loyal to President Salva Kiir against rebels linked to former vice president Riek Machar. Tens of thousands of people have died and 4.5 million people have fled their homes amid persistent reports of gang rape and ethnic violence. United Nations peacekeepers in the country are moving more aggressively to protect civilians caught in the war, after years of criticism for failures that led to the sacking of the mission's military chief in 2016. Crimes like rape and murder have been reported near PoC (Protection of Civilian sites) in the past. Walking long distances in search of firewood exposes displaced women and girls to the risk of sexual abuse as they pass though isolated areas to find firewood. It is hoped that the stoves will help reduce the need to go out frequently to collect firewood. The stoves can also use dry sticks and twigs which can help prevent chopping down trees and save forests. Depletion of forests disrupts the ecosystem, as trees stabilize the climate, regulate water flows and provide shelter to numerous animal species, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). "We will take this to every and each of the blocks. We will look at it to make sure the women in the POC (Protection of Civilians site) all benefit from a really important cooking method which is limiting the number of patrols that we need to go; limiting the need to go into harm's way, as well looking after our environment," said Hazel Dewet, head of the UNMISS office in Malakal. Half of the country's 12 million population needs aid to cope with the effects of war, hunger and economic decline. Last month the U.N. said more than 7 million people would have problems finding food this year. Parts of the country are experiencing shortages close to last year's famine.


--AFP--