The president's statement calls Leah Sharibu "the only Dapchi schoolgirl still in captivity" after the extraordinary release of the girls on Wednesday. He said no word on five girls still unaccounted for who are said to be dead and buried. Freed girls and parents have said Sharibu is Christian and still captive "because they want to convert her to Islam". Buhari's statement says "true followers of Islam all over the world respect the injunction that there is no compulsion in religion". He added that he looked forward to meeting with the girls who were freed. Also Thursday, the father of one of the five schoolgirls still unaccounted for said he has been told his daughter and others are dead and buried. Inuwa Garba told The Associated Press that friends of his daughter who were freed told him the 16-year-old died from injuries in the frightened stampede that occurred during the mass abduction in Dapchi a month ago. "They told me five of the girls died and my daughter, who was among them, was the first to die" the day the girls were seized, Garba said. The survivors told him the bodies were buried in the bush. "I believe what the girls told me because they were all together and saw what happened," he said. On Wednesday, one 14-year-old released by the fighters told reporters that five girls had died but did not provide details. One of the freed girls, Khadija Grema, has said a Christian classmate remained captive, while those released are Muslim. "We were freed because we are Muslim girls and they didn't want us to suffer. That is why they released us," she said. The freed girls were taken to the capital, Abuja, later on Wednesday. The Boko Haram extremists brought back the girls they had kidnapped from a boarding school, dropping them off with a warning: "Don't ever put your daughters in school again." Boko Haram means "Western education is forbidden" in the Hausa language. The abductions in Dapchi have evoked painful memories of the tragedy in Chibok, where 276 girls were kidnapped from their boarding school. Nearly four years later, about 100 of them have never returned home. Many had been forced to marry their captors and had children fathered by them. --AFP--