A frantic search ensued, ending after three days with the recovery of the children unharmed and the detention of the neighbour, who had demanded a ransom of 13 million Ugandan shillings ($3,500). Kidnappings have long been rife in some African nations such as oil-rich Nigeria where security is weak, but they have spiked only recently in Uganda. "I was so devastated and spent that whole time in tears because the police did not care about my situation and had already lost the money I raised for ransom. Even if I were to get the money back, I didn't have any hope seeing my children again. I did not know how to start looking for the kidnapper because I didn't know where he came from. Later on he called my wife and asked her to go find the children in Kiboga district (120km from Kampala) my wife had never been to Kiboga," said Nsereko. Police failure to apprehend kidnapping suspects has created outrage in the press and on social media, and exposed the wafer-thin public faith in the police, who are routinely accused of ditching their primary role of fighting crime to focus instead on harassing opponents of long-time ruler Yoweri Museveni. When he reported his twins missing to the local police station, officers asked for money for fuel for their cars. He said that he gave them 490,000 shillings ($132.79) -- all that he, a motorcycle repair man, could afford. Two days later, after multiple phone calls from his neighbour demanding ransom payment, police had not found his children. A TV news report led to their recovery. A hotel manager in Kiboga, a nearby town grew concerned when two children staying there with a man pointed at the TV in the lobby and said that the crying woman on screen speaking about a kidnapping was their mother, and called the police. Victims are sometimes not as fortunate as Nsereko's twins. The police in the East African nation of 41 million have not released crime statistics since 2013. A 2017 report from Uganda's statistics agency contained homicide data from 2015 that it sourced to the police. It said there had been nearly 4,500 murders in 2015, nearly twice as many as in 2013, when police last released a crime report. Police spokesman Emirian Kayima says criminals are exploiting technology gaps like unregistered SIM cards to conduct kidnappings. He dismissed accusations that police were not doing their job. "For the public, yes they may point fingers, they may accuse. What we are focusing on is to find the criminals because the crime was committed. We must find them and the law must work, we must bring them to book and we must find evidence that places them at the scene of crime for the trial judges to do a fair work of convicting them so that we can have a community less some of these criminals," said Kayima. Brussels-based International Crisis Group said in a recent report that crime is rising "as police ability to carry out regular duties declines." The primary functions of the "politicised police force" have been replaced, the report said, by a focus on stifling dissent and engaging in "protection rackets, organised crime and turf wars". As police shortcomings take on a political dimension, public concern is growing over the lack of transparency about the problem's scale. Livingstone Ssewanyana is the head of the Foundation for Human Rights Initiative. "One would expect that the state would come out openly and expose this particular problem of kidnapping and the extent to which it has grown. But of course one also needs to bear in mind that the state cannot do that, cannot be seen to expose as many cases as possible because that would not speak well of its ability to contain crime. Now I think what is important for us is not necessarily how many people are being kidnapped, are being abducted, what is important and which also is very dangerous in the phenomenon itself, how crime has evolved to a degree which is very worrying," he said. Rising poverty and inequality are also driving the spike in kidnappings, Ssewanyana said. Nsereko says his harrowing experience increased his distrust of the police. "I don't know what the truth of the kidnapper's story is. With our police, I sometimes think he paid a bribe and he was released. I fear that he could come back to haunt us, I am not even allowed to attend court hearings," he said. Museveni acknowledges growing crime and has repeatedly alleged that criminals have infiltrated the police. Last month he removed his long-serving police chief in a move seen by analysts as a response to public concern with security.
--reuters--