The Pitso Mosimane-coached side will go into the match enjoying the form of their life and are closing in on the league crown, having defeated Wits 2-0 on Saturday. The Brazilians have a three point advantage over second placed Orlando Pirates and can make it six with a win over Arrows.  Sundowns are at the summit of the Premiership table with 52 points, while Pirates have 49 and both will be left with three games to play before the end of the season, after Tuesday’s match with Arrows. The Tshwane outfit need just four points in order win the 'Big Fish' - a term Mosimane called the Premiership title back in 2015. Arrows on the other hand, have had a rough second round and find themselves not far away from the relegation zone. The match with Sundowns gives them the chance to cause the biggest upset of the season and further distance themselves from danger territory. Arrows are in 12th position and have managed to collect 31 points so far into the season. They played a 1-1 draw against Free State Stars in their last Premiership encounter and coach Clinton Larsen said he is relishing the big test against the in-form Brazilians, which will followed by another tough encounter with Kaizer Chiefs. He said: "I'd rather be playing the likes of Kaizer Chiefs, Orlando Pirates and Mamelodi Sundowns at this stage of the season, than an Ajax Cape Town or Platinum Stars who are fighting for their lives. "It's easy to get the boys motivated, they are self-motivated when playing against these big teams, but you've really got to drive them when playing against the so-called smaller teams." Meanwhile, Mosimane added of the clash: "It's a heavy load, that’s why Sibusiso Vilakazi was taken off against Wits, we need him. I don't like rotating a lot but we have to manage the game. "This game was very important, I didn't want to highlight it too much but in the dressing room, they knew about it. It gives us for the fourth year in a row a CAF Champions League spot." Kick-off is at 19:30. --news24--