The escalation came after months of building friction in Somalia as the Gulf crisis pitting Arab powers against each other spills over into the fragile state, whose position of neutrality has not gone down well at home or with its allies. Rashid Abdi, an analyst with the International Crisis Group, said while the UAE and Somalia have traditionally been close, and Mogadishu has vowed to remain neutral over the Gulf divisions, the central government is nevertheless "perceived to be very much pro-Qatar". Some of Somalia's federal states were unhappy with President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed's neutral stance, and have broken with the official position to side with the UAE. Diplomatic tensions first spilled into the open in March after the Dubai-based DP World gave Ethiopia a 19 % stake in the Berbera port in breakaway Somaliland whose independence is not recognised by Mogadishu. Lawmakers in Somalia, which also has a history of animosity with Ethiopia, adopted a resolution accusing the company of having "intentionally violated the sovereignty of Somalia". Tempers have also flared over a military base being built by the UAE in Somaliland. On Sunday, Somali security forces stormed onto a UAE civilian aircraft at the international airport, and seized $9.6 million in cash held in three unmarked bags. "The security forces noticed the suspicious bags and handed them over to the concerned departments," Somalia's security ministry said in a statement. However the UAE in a statement accused security forces of holding those on the plane "at gunpoint", and said the cash had been allocated to support the Somali army and trainees. "The current Somali government is creating unnecessary tensions with a friend and an ally who supported the stability and security of Somalia during its hardest phases," tweeted UAE state minister for foreign affairs Anwar Gargash. "We call for wisdom and reason". Just days later, on Wednesday, Somalia's defence ministry announced it was taking over the management of hundreds of Somali troops who had been trained by the UAE. The UAE has been running a military camp in Mogadishu where it trains Somali soldiers, who are also paid by Emirati officials.  --AFP--