However, he is often chastised for doing so and in the wake of her death has even received death threats for calling her an icon. He told News24 that he had received more than 20 threatening phone calls. "(There) have been death threats, all of them telephonically, from anonymous numbers or burner phones and those are being followed up by authorities at the moment," said Ravis. "I think I have learnt that people will lash out at anything and try and draw in their (own) beliefs. For some people it's beyond comprehension (that I had a relationship with her). It goes both ways, black and white," Ravis said in reaction to the backlash against his views. Ravis first met Madikizela-Mandela in the late 1990s while he was stationed in Soweto and has grown to see himself as one of her many sons, and was one of the last people to have seen her on the day she drew her last breath. An ardent churchgoer The 81-year-old stalwart died on Easter Monday in hospital following a long illness. "She was completely at peace, she was fine. The one thing about Mama, no matter how many times you went to visit her, I can tell you now that she never spoke about herself or her illness. She would discuss anything except the state which she was in – she completely deflected anything about what condition she was in," he said of the liberation hero. Ravis admitted that he had felt some worry for Madikizela-Mandela's health, but assumed that in keeping with her fighting spirit she would be back on her feet soon, but that was not the case. The bishop's insights into the lesser known parts of the global icon's life echoed those of family representatives and ANC leaders, not only had she refused to move from her beloved Soweto, but she was also an ardent churchgoer. During Easter weekend her granddaughter Zoleka Mandela posted pictures of Madikizela-Mandela in the red, black and white of the Methodist Church after they had attended a service. Although the life of the liberation hero has mostly been lauded, others have labelled Madikizela-Mandela unworthy of any praise and evil for the role she played during the apartheid struggle, especially in relation to the death of 14-year-old Stompie Seipei in 1989. Recent claims have emerged that Jerry Richardson, who was convicted of Stompie's murder and later died in prison, had not killed the teenager on Madikizela-Mandela's orders but had done so to cover his own tracks instead, as he was a spy. Ravis has taken serious offence to this, saying it's based on false perceptions and that those who criticised the icon had no clue what she was faced with at the time. Madikizela-Mandela will be laid to rest on Saturday at Fourways Memorial Park, where her great-granddaughter Zenani is buried.

--News24--