Kim said he was "filled with emotion" after stepping over the concrete blocks, making him the first North Korean leader to set foot in the South since the Korean War ended in an armistice 65 years ago. At Kim's impromptu invitation the two men briefly crossed hand-in-hand into the North before walking to the Peace House building on the southern side of the truce village of Panmunjom for the summit, only the third of its kind since hostilities ceased in 1953. "I came here determined to send a starting signal at the threshold of a new history," said Kim, whose nuclear-armed regime is accused of widespread human rights abuses. With the North's atomic arsenal high on the agenda, South Korean President Moon Jae-in responded that he hoped they would reach "a bold agreement so that we may give a big gift to the whole Korean people and the people who want peace". Kim was flanked by his sister and close adviser Kim Yo Jong and the North's head of inter-Korean relations, while Moon was accompanied by his spy chief and chief of staff. It is the highest-level encounter yet in a whirlwind of nuclear diplomacy, and intended to pave the way for a much-anticipated encounter between Kim and US President Donald Trump. The North's official KCNA news agency said that Kim will "open-heartedly discuss all the issues arising in improving inter-Korean relations and achieving peace, prosperity and reunification of the Korean peninsula". But it did not mention denuclearisation, and as images of the leaders' handshake were beamed around the world, the North's state television showed only a test card. Last year Pyongyang carried out its sixth nuclear blast, by far its most powerful to date, and launched missiles capable of reaching the US mainland. Its actions sent tensions soaring as Kim and Trump traded personal insults and threats of war. Moon seized on the South's Winter Olympics as an opportunity to broker dialogue between them, and has said his meeting with Kim will serve to set up the summit between Pyongyang and Washington. The White House said it hoped the summit would "achieve progress toward a future of peace and prosperity for the entire Korean Peninsula". Trump has demanded the North give up its weapons, and Washington is pressing for it to do so in a complete, verifiable and irreversible way.  --AFP--