Donor countries, aid organisations and UN agencies are gathering in Brussels for the seventh annual conference on Syria's future as international inspectors probe a suspected gas attack in the town of Douma, highlighting the brutal nature of the war. The meeting comes in the wake of strikes by the United States, France and Britain on Syrian military installations, carried out in response to the alleged chemical weapons incident in Douma which has been widely blamed on Damascus. EU officials hope to beat the $6 billion pledged at last year's gathering, as forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad launched a new offensive against Islamic State jihadists entrenched in a southern district of Damascus. The UN has warned that its own appeal for money for humanitarian work in Syria this year is less than a quarter funded, receiving less than $800 million of the $3.5 billion needed. "Within the resources we can plausibly expect to mobilise this year we cannot meet even all the urgent needs," Mark Lowcock, the head of UN humanitarian agency OCHA said at the start of the conference. "Our focus is now to ensure the 5.6 m people we assess as being in acute need inside Syria are made the focus." Some 6.1 million people are now internally displaced, more than five million have fled Syria and 13 million including six million children are in need of aid, according to the EU. Lowcock said the "intensity of the humanitarian crisis has escalated again in 2018", with more than 700 000 people displaced since the start of the year. 

UN and EU officials are holding talks with aid groups working in Syria and neighbouring countries on Tuesday to get their views before government ministers arrive on Wednesday. Save the Children International Chief Executive, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, urged donors to focus on education, saying a third of Syrian youngsters are out of school and a third of Syrian schools are unusable because of the war. "We have let Syrian children down. This is the seventh year and they're still being let down," Thorning-Schmidt told AFP. "2018 has been a very bloody year for Syrian children, and one of the things they are missing out on enormously is education." UN children's agency UNICEF said some 2.8 million Syrian children had missed out on education, warning that in parts of the country simply going to school "has at times become a matter of life and death". According to EU figures, the total given by the international community after last year's conference was $7.5 billion, 25 % more than pledged with Germany, the United States and EU institutions leading the way. -AFP--