"It's about continued development, not a revolution," said Herbert Diess, the 59-year-old Austrian who took over late Thursday from Matthias Mueller, 64, as CEO of one of the world's largest automobile groups. "We will emphatically address the special challenges that lie ahead of us, especially in electromobility, digitisation and new mobility services," he told a press conference at the group's Wolfsburg headquarters. Diess promised to push on with "cultural change" in the company that suffered its deepest crisis when it had to admit in 2015 that it installed software in 11 million diesel vehicles worldwide to cheat on emissions test. The crisis has so far cost the company more than ($31 billion in buybacks, fines and compensation as well as massive reputational damage. The carmaker remains mired in legal woes abroad and in its home market, where it also faces possible diesel bans in some smog-clogged inner cities, a prospect that has already depressed resale prices to the chagrin of millions of owners of diesel vehicles. "We lost a lot of trust, especially here in Germany but also worldwide," Diess conceded, acknowledging that VW faced "a long road" toward winning back the confidence of consumers. He stressed however that VW remains opposed to costly hardware fixes for its cars as well as to urban diesel bans. A former executive with rival BMW, Diess joined VW only two months before the emissions cheating scandal broke in mid-2015 and is thus relatively untainted by the crisis. He takes over the company as a new super manager, running both the group as a whole, with its 640 000 staff worldwide, and the flagship Volkswagen brand as well as the research and development and vehicle IT divisions.

While VW has defended its cherished diesel technology against the public backlash, it has also vowed to transform itself into a champion of greener cars in the medium term. "The new VW boss Diess has a long to-do list," Greens party parliamentary leader Anton Hofreiter told German news agency DPA. "He must finally clear up the diesel affair, otherwise, the charge of secrecy and cronyism will keep sticking to VW in future." While Mueller brought VW's share price and profits back up to pre-crisis levels, observers say he made little progress in shaking up the firm's famously hierarchical and insular corporate culture, which some critics believe discouraged employees from speaking up about the diesel scam.  --AFP--