“She emerged from all this torments emboldened driven by a burning desire to give voice to the aspiration of her people. To give them hope, to give them courage to lead them to freedom,” the President said. Delivering the eulogy for Mama Winnie, President Ramaphosa announced that the ANC’s highest honour would be bestowed on her. “The ANC should award you the highest order of our movement and bestow on you ISITHWALANDWE because indeed you are one of those leaders who richly deserve to be awarded SEAPARANKWE/ ISITHWALANDWE. You have run your race mama your forbearers await you. UMadiba is waiting to receive you, mama Albertina Sisulu, and many others are waiting to welcome you.” As it was the wish of Mama Winnie, Ramaphosa announced that he and EFF leader Julius Malema will make a joint visit to Marikana. “At your 80th birthday you said you would take me and Julius Malema to Marikana to meet the widows of the departed miners, we could not go because you were not well. You are gone now i am left to go alone, but i will be guided by your spirit and i know that Julius Malema will go with me, so that we can go and heal the wounds of the Marikana widows.” Malema has often accused Ramaphosa of playing a role in the police killing of 34 mineworkers at Marikana in the North West in 2012. The funeral service has now ended and Mama Winnie’s body is being taken to the cemetery at Fourways, north of Johannesburg, where she will be laid to rest. It’s started raining over Johannesburg, which is seen as a blessing in the African tradition. The JMPD’s Wayne Minnaar says metro police will be stationed along the route to help with the flow of traffic, but that heavy delays can be expected in the area. “The funeral procession will now move from Orlando Stadium. It will go out on the N17 then proceed left onto the N1 north up to William Nicol. At William Nicol, the funeral procession will go northwards and then turn left at Witkoppen road. It will proceed from Witkoppen road onto cedar road up to the private road of the Fourways memorial park. Motorists can avoid Witkoppen road, William Nicol and ce3dar road now and can use Malibongwe or main road Bryanston as alternative routes.
--SABC-- 