The results confirm the electronics and entertainment giant's return to health after huge losses in recent years, but analysts said there are questions about whether the pace could be maintained. Sony reported net yearly profits hit $4.5 billion for the year to March, a record high, up from $67 million a year earlier. Annual operating profit more than doubled to $6.72 billion, while sales surged 12.4 % to $78 billion the company said. Sales were up across the board, with the exception of the mobile operation, with asset sales adding to its operating profit, Sony said. The game division saw an 18 % rise in sales largely, driven by the popularity of PlayStation 4 software, as well as foreign exchange rates and more subscribers to Sony's paid membership service. After the commercial successes of "Spider-Man: Homecoming" and "Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle", Sony's pictures division saw sales rise 12 %. Jumanji managed the rare feat of regaining the top spot in North American box offices on its seventh week in cinemas, and has earned more than $404 million in the North American market since its December 2017 release. Sony also saw robust demand for image sensors for mobile phones drive sales in its semiconductor business up 10 %. "Brisk sales of image sensors, recovery in the movie business and a steady expansion in its game sector have contributed to its profit," Yasuo Imanaka, an analyst at Rakuten Securities in Tokyo, told AFP ahead of the release. The strong figures served as a grand send-off for Kazuo Hirai, who recently stepped down as the firm's chief executive after spending the past six years pulling the electronics-entertainment titan from deep financial troubles. Hirai led aggressive restructuring at Sony, terminating thousands of jobs while selling business units and assets. Meanwhile, Sony's quality sensors for smartphone cameras saw explosive demand and became a major pillar of the firm's revenue, along with the PlayStation series of game consoles, movies, and its financial businesses.  --AFP--