Industry behemoths like Volkswagen, Daimler, Toyota, Nissan, Ford and others are displaying more than 1 000 models and dozens of concept cars at the Beijing auto show. Thousands of Chinese auto enthusiasts are expected to wander the halls of the mega exhibition centre this week, with electric cars and gas-guzzling sport-utility vehicles grabbing the spotlight. Nissan presented its first Made in China electric car produced for Chinese consumers, the four-door Sylphy Zero Emission, with a drive range of 338 kilometres. "The new Sylphy Zero Emission is the next step in our electrification strategy for China," said Jose Munoz, Nissan's chief performance officer, adding that the company will unveil 20 electrified models over the next five years. Auto executives may have their minds on the boiling trade war between Beijing and Washington, with every twist and turn fanning fears that it could bring their plans for China to a screeching halt. But last week Beijing announced it will liberalise foreign ownership limits in the sector, a move seen as a possible olive branch to President Donald Trump, who has railed against China's policies in the sector. China currently restricts foreign auto firms to a maximum 50 % ownership of joint ventures with local companies. The changes will end shareholding limits for new energy vehicle firms as soon as this year, followed by commercial vehicles in 2020 and passenger cars in 2022. Foreign automakers who account for more than half of vehicle sales in China have cautiously welcomed the changes, with VW saying it has "strong" local partners in their joint ventures. "This will have no impact on our JVs. But the overreaching principle is important. Hopefully, liberalisation will as well help for fair competition, and having a level playing field," Jochem Heizmann, CEO of Volkswagen Group China, told reporters. The show comes as China's market hits a transition period, the explosive growth in car sales seen over the last decade slowed last year and data from early this year point to a continued slump for many vehicle types. Chinese consumers are following their American peers toward SUVs while policymakers in Beijing push an all-electric future. --AFP--