With the title of 2018 European Car of the Year already under its belt, the SUV is set to create yet another stir for the Volvo brand in South Africa where the XC90, S90 and V90 Cross Country have paved the way for new-era Volvo cars.

The new Volvo XC40 brings a breath of fresh Swedish air to the premium compact SUV segment, throwing away the rulebook to create a new motoring experience where individual style meets a functional and supremely minimalistic driving environment. 

A new evolution of Volvo's latest design language has resulted in an expressive and unique exterior, while a bespoke interior inherits all of Volvo's latest design elements, including the revered 9-inch Sensus Connect touch screen and digital instrument cluster.

New design elements like the optional contrasting black or white roof, white mirror caps and wheels, Oxide Red leather and 'Lava' carpets, which are made from 100% recycled materials, will allow XC40 customers to express a more individualistic style. The Volvo XC40 launches in SA with a choice of two trim levels (the sporty R-Design and elegant Momentum), two engines (D4 diesel or T5 petrol), and all-wheel drive on all models. Top-of-the-range Inscription derivatives arrive later in 2018, as well as the T3 front-wheel drive version. The XC40 also introduces the new Care by Volvo subscription model, whereby customers are able to subscribe to a car rather than buy it, for a fixed monthly fee which includes the likes of service, maintenance, insurance and other added value benefits. Care by Volvo is under consideration for introduction in South Africa with a planned date of mid-2019. Rearward facing radar detects if a rear impact is imminent, and safety belts are tightened in advance in order to protect the occupants. Lights also start flashing to warn the driver behind and brakes are activated to help reduce the impact movement. Lane Keeping Aid is a standard-fitted system that helps the driver keep the car in its lane by gently steering the car back if it is about to cross a lane marking, and if the car senses that the driver is not driving actively, or for example, not using their indicators. If the supplied steering intervention is insufficient the driver is alerted by vibrations in the steering wheel. The system is active between 65-200 km/h. The new XC40 can also help you stay informed by displaying real-world road sign information within your instrument display. This function also has the ability to warn the driver should the vehicle exceed the current road speed limit. At Volvo we understand that you have a lot on your mind sometimes. Optionally available, is Volvo's next generation of semi-autonomous technology. The Adaptive Cruise Control feature maintains the desired set vehicle speed but utilises radar to monitor the vehicle in front and automatically slows down or speeds up as necessary. 

In an evolution of this, Pilot Assist also takes care of the steering (up to 130 km/h and when lane markings are clearly visible) by continually monitoring the area in front of the vehicle, making the necessary steering, accelerator and brake inputs as required to keep to the desired speed, distance and within the lane markings. Distraction, lack of concentration, and falling asleep are major reasons for accidents. In 2007 Volvo Cars introduced a world-first technology to combat this danger. Driver Alert Control keeps track of the car's path in relation to lane markings on either side, by means of the camera in the windscreen. 

If the system detects that the car is being driven in an erratic manner the driver gets an alert in the form of an audible signal as well as a text message and a coffee cup symbol in the driver display, that indicate it is time to take a break. With Sensus Navigation, the driver also gets guidance to the next available place to take the break.

--Quickpic-- 