The Egyptian was named the Player of the Month for March having added to his November and February accolades. Salah’s six goals last month made him March’s top scorer as he surged ahead in the race for the 2017/18 Golden Boot. They also took his overall tally for the season to 29, making the Egyptian only the second African after Didier Drogba to reach that mark in a PL campaign. "I feel good to win it again, we had good results in the month so that’s the most important thing," said the 25-year-old. Salah is already eyeing his next achievement. He hopes to surpass the record for most goals scored in a 38-match season, jointly-held by Alan Shearer (1995/96), Cristiano Ronaldo (2007/08) and Luis Suarez (2013/14), with 31. "I’m very proud to see myself fighting to break the (goal-scoring) record for the Premier League. I’m thinking about each game. That’s my target, I want to score, I want to help the team to win again. "It’s still five games to go, there’s a big chance, let’s see." Salah received the most combined votes from a panel of experts, Premier League captains and fans to claim the award ahead of five other nominees: Son Heung-min, Romelu Lukaku, David Silva, Cenk Tosun and Chris Wood. The Manager of the Month award for March has been named as Sean Dyche. The 46-year-old has won the accolade for the first time after masterminding Burnley’s 100% record in March. Wins over Everton, West Ham United and West Bromwich Albion strengthened the Clarets' grip on seventh place. "I’m really pleased for myself and my staff but particularly my players, they are having a really outstanding season," said Dyche. "Once we got that big win against Everton, and the first time we had turned a result around as well, we continued that with some fine form, so I'm very pleased." Jamie Vardy's sensational volley won the Goal of the Month award. The Leicester City striker scored a glorious first-time volley in a 4-1 win at West Bromwich Albion from a long Riyad Mahrez pass that dropped over his head. The 31-year-old’s strike was one of eight nominated for the award, along with those of Bernardo Silva, Nemanja Matic, Marcus Rashford, Junior Stanislas, Ashley Barnes, Gabriel Jesus and team-mate Mahrez.

--New24--