Since Tullow Oil found crude there six years ago, the London-listed company has funded a 40-bed referral hospital, school classrooms and dormitories, provided village water points graded roads, and paid for scholarships to generate goodwill. Seeing the potential benefits of oil, residents of the poorest of Kenya's 47 counties now want the central government to make up for decades of neglect by ploughing nearly a third of expected oil revenues back into Turkana. The central government has other ideas. Parliament passed a draft bill in 2016 allocating 20% of any state oil revenue to local government and 10% to communities living where the crude was discovered, leaving 70% for the central government in Nairobi. The legislation must be passed before large-scale oil production can begin. Kenyatta's Jubilee Party, which controls 213 of parliament's 349 seats, is likely to back the revised law, but some of its lawmakers may break ranks and side with the opposition pushing for more money for local communities. Jubilee Party's James Lomenen, Member of Parliament for Turkana South Lomenen plans to table an amendment to the Petroleum Exploration, Development and Production Bill to restore the 10% share to local communities. "The money allocated to the people of Turkana cannot be able to solve their problems. This 30% that has been allocated is not enough. Will use 20% for the county and 10% for the community, so we can ensure we tackle poverty. “Who cannot see that we don't have enough water? We don't have enough food, we still don't have enough hospitals. Our children still don't have schools. People are still sleeping hungry," he said. "If they cannot offer us 30 or 20% let them give us 15% of our oil, because we live where the oil is found, we are the custodians of this land in Turkana," said Joseph Loboo, a Turkana resident. Residents see the new terms as another slap in the face for Turkana, a vast scrubland where most residents live in villages without power or running water. Local leaders say the money will help fund areas such as health and education. Turkana's literacy rate is just 20%, while the national average is more than 70%. Nairobi officials argue that Turkana's economy, which largely depends on livestock, cannot absorb a wave of cash. Most of Kenya's oil blocks have not been explored. Those owned by Tullow and its partners, Africa Oil Corp and Total SA, hold an estimated 750 million barrels. The petroleum bill would also create a sovereign wealth fund, financed with oil revenues, which the government says it would manage to guard against currency fluctuations and theft. But Turkana residents have little faith the government, tainted by a series of corruption scandals, will manage their money well. A Petroleum ministry official says delegations will visit established producers like Nigeria and Oman to seek advice on revenue sharing. In Nigeria, 13% of oil revenue goes to local communities, though that has not stopped attacks on oil installations by those wanting more. The rest is shared out among the three tiers of the Nigerian government; the federal branch gets 52%. --Reuters--