He will be part of over 20 cabinet ministers and at least five deputies who are to be made Members of Parliament. This follows President Cyril Ramaphosa's cabinet reshuffle last night. The President appointed Nhanhla Nene as the new Finance Minister, with Pravin Gordhan taking up the Public Enterprises portfolio and Gwede Mantashe as Minerals Resources Minister. Nene's move to the new Brics Bank never materialised, confirming in April 2016 he had not received an approach, and took a new job in the private sector. His return, announced on Monday, should be met favourably by the markets, having been well received during his short, 19-month stint. Zweli Mkhize was appointed Minister of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, he is the former Treasurer General of the ANC. He was one of the candidates for the party's presidency at its conference in Johannesburg in December last year, campaigning for unity and end to factionalism. At the eleventh hour, he withdrew his nomination and declined being nominated for Deputy President. Before being elected to the ANC's top six in Mangaung in 2012, Mkhize served as the Premier of KwaZulu-Natal from 2009 until 2013. He was elected as the ANC’'s provincial chairperson in 2008. Gwede Mantashe, who was elected as the ANC's national chairperson at the ANC's Johannesburg conference last year, after serving two terms as the party's Secretary General, becomes Minister of Mineral Resources. Veteran ANC politician, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, makes her fifth return to Cabinet after her appointment on Monday as Minister in the Presidency. Dlamini-Zuma famously lost the race for the ANC presidency in December last year to Ramaphosa by 179 votes. She has now been handed the task of succeeding Jeff Radebe as Ramaphosa's new right-hand woman in the Cabinet and a key advisor, in a move that can be seen as an attempt to unite the two ANC factions. Dlamini-Zuma has a wealth of experience in Cabinet, having served in three different ministries over four terms since 1994. Blade Nzimande has been appointed Minister of Transport. The South African Communist Party's General Secretary, Dr Blade Nzimande, is one of the few reappointed to Cabinet by Ramaphosa. He now takes over the transport ministry after being axed by former president Jacob Zuma in 2017. Derek Hanekom takes over Tourism department. Ntebo Mokobo has more… --SABC-- 