The narcotic, a flowering plant, native to east Africa is illegal to chew in many countries but not in the Horn of Africa, where it is an increasingly profitable option for farmers. 

For generations, farmers planted the lush earth of Awedai and nearby areas in eastern Ethiopia with coffee trees, earning a livelihood from a crop that is now the country's main export. But the centuries-long practice is now being abandoned in favour of khat. Jemal Moussa is among farmers that have chosen to grow khat instead of coffee. The 45-year-old father of six says the narcotic leaf brings in more income. "Khat has a lot of benefits for me. I can take it the market and immediately convert it to cash. Personally I also benefit a lot from it because chewing it makes me work better and productive. It helps me raise my children. I benefit a lot from it," he said. Jemal says it was in the early 2000s that farmers in the region first started planting khat as its popularity rose and coffee prices remained stagnant. One kg of coffee sells for $2 and a bunch of khat, while not measured in kilograms, goes for $4. Jemal says the entire economy of Awedai, a small town 35 km outside the ancient city of Harar, relies on the stimulant leaf. Trucks piled up with khat head out of the town every 30 minutes, dispersing their produce to the nearby Ethiopian Somali Region and Hargeisa, in the neighbouring semi-autonomous region of Somaliland. Khat is illegal in several Western nations but immensely popular among millions in the Middle East and the Horn of Africa for giving the chewer a mild amphetamine-like high. Ethiopia prides itself as the birthplace of coffee, grown mostly in the forested highlands in its western and southwestern regions. Some 15 million people rely on the crop for their livelihood. Africa's biggest coffee producer targets annual revenue from the crop of $2 billion by 2019/2020. It also wants to boost output to more than a million tons from 400 000 tons now. Ethiopia, which grows arabica beans, is the continent's second largest coffee exporter after Uganda, according to data from the International Coffee Organisation. --Reuters--