The Egypt forward scooped the Player of the Season and Players’ Player of the Season awards at the ceremony at Anfield. Salah, who has scored 43 goals in all competitions for the Reds this term, has already claimed the Football Writers’ Association and Professional Footballers' Association prizes. England Under-21 right-back Trent Alexander-Arnold was voted Liverpool’s young player of the season. The 19-year-old has enjoyed a fine breakthrough campaign with the Reds, making 18 Premier League appearances so far this term. Salah flew from Liverpool to London to receive his FWA award at the Landmark Hotel. He said: "I was here four years ago (with Chelsea) and a lot of people were saying he couldn’t play in the Premier League. I left Chelsea but it was always in my mind to come back to prove them wrong. So I make them wrong. "I’m not the same player, I improved a lot in Rome but I can’t say everything is me. The team-mates maybe different, the coach is tough and they always help me inside and outside the pitch. Just wait for Sunday. I just want to break the (Premier League scoring) record and we’ll see afterwards." Reds boss Jurgen Klopp wrote to the FWA to pay tribute to his star forward. "It was typical of Mo’s character that he was so keen to attend, and I don’t mean he is greedy for awards but being gracious and well-mannered enough to make every effort to be there in person,” he wrote. "There’s not much I can say about what he does on the pitch that you guys haven’t already seen and written about. The fact you have written about him means you have witnessed his incredible ability as a footballer, but it’s his qualities as a person which should not be overlooked. "The only labels we should put on Mo is what a good person he is and what a fantastic footballer he is and, by the way, the first part of that is more important. "Mo, we are very proud of you and thankful for what you have done for this team and club. We look forward to sharing many more seasons with you at Liverpool." --News24--