The draft laws, posted on the Nigerian legislature’s website on April 30, 2018, are the versions intended for the Senate, the upper house of parliament. The PIB aims to improve transparency, attract investors, stimulate growth and increase government revenues. After being debated for well over a decade, the unwieldy and contentious legislation was broken into sections to help it pass into law. The governance part of the bill was passed by both houses of parliament in January. 

However, that section has not yet been signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, who is also Nigeria’s oil minister. The inability to pass the law and uncertainty around taxation has stunted investment in the West African nation, particularly in deep-water oil and gas fields. The three PIB sections yet to be passed address fiscal and administrative issues and local communities affected by the oil industry. On Tuesday, Senate President Bukola Saraki told Reuters Nigeria’s parliament aims to pass the long-delayed PIB by the end of July. The administrative bill largely deals with the scope of the Nigerian Petroleum Regulatory Commission, which would be the main body regulating the oil and gas sector in the country. The commission would have the power to grant, amend and revoke licences for all kinds of activity in the industry, from exploration and drilling to distribution and sales. It would also make public all those licences, permits and authorisations, as well as the details of interests or shares held. The bill sets the time limits for various kinds of licences: three years for an exploration licence, 25 years for onshore petroleum licences and 30 years for deep offshore. The draft seeks to put an end to Nigeria’s subsidies for petroleum products, with a “short transition towards full market pricing”, within a year of the bill being signed into law. “The President may direct the Commission to negotiate and award Petroleum Licences to qualified investors outside of the bidding process,” the draft also said. The fiscal bill sets out the rates of tax and royalties for various oil and gas enterprises, as well as various breaks such as upstream gas operations receiving a tax-free period of five years from the start of production. --Reuters--